Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you an action, crime, fantasy
film from 2017, titled What Happened to Monday.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Human behavior has drastically impacted the
environment and with an ever-increasing population,
there is a dramatic shortage of food.
To combat the crisis the European Federation
has developed genetically modified crops,
that are more resilient and have a high yield.
This scientific breakthrough had caused a
different problem.
There is a staggering spike in multiple births
and genetic defects globally.
The solution is feeding the problem furthermore.
The political activist and conservation biologist
Doctor Nicolette Cayman has asked the Federation
to institute a one child per family policy,
called "the child allocation act".
She was successful in her efforts to push
the legislation so the world is facing new
restrictive measures.
Illegally conceived siblings would have to
be remanded in cryo-sleep.
The children will be humanely stored in cryo-sleep
until the global issues have been resolved.
They will awake in a better world.
A doctor approaches Terrence Settman who is
looking at his seven granddaughters in the
nursery.
He tells the grandfather that if they were
better equipped they could have saved his
daughter.
Terrence doesn't know who the father is because
he hasn't spoken to his daughter in a long
time.
The doctor asks him how he will hide them.
Terrence says that he'll manage and names
the girls after the seven days of the week.
30 years later, we see one of the siblings
on the street.
Sunday is leaving the sector where she works.
On her way home, she witnesses officers taking
a sibling from a distraught family, under
the child allocation act.
Then, she goes to a market and buys rat meat
with an identity bracelet.
Sunday enters her building and has a chat
with the security guard Eddie, who tells her
something that he feels he's already said
to her before.
Sunday enters the apartment and later is seen
serving dinner to the rest of her siblings.
Thursday thinks the food is gross, while Wednesday
seems to enjoy it.
Tuesday says that it's beautiful.
Saturday jokes with Wednesday that she'd eat
anything.
They all laugh at her jokes except Monday.
She's worried about a presentation she needs
to give the next day.
Thursday says that if they do get the promotion
it will all be because of Friday, who's their
resident genius.
Terrence can be seen in a flashback teaching
them how they would operate in the world as
one.
He tells them that in time they will select
a carrier that capitalizes on their collective
strengths.
Later, he's seen making a hidden room for
the girls and then training them to hide their
things and themselves if the time for that
ever comes.
Terrence hides the rest of the stuff and walks
over to Sunday, who's the only one left outside.
Friday joins him as he makes copies of the
identity bracelet for all of them.
One day, he sits the girls down to explain
the rules by which they will operate in the
world.
Each girl will be allowed to leave the house
on the day that is their name.
Inside the house, they can be themselves,
but outside they will take on the singular
identity of Karen Settman.
Thursday asks if she can play outside and
he answers that she may, but only if it's
her day and never together with her sisters.
They must never tell anyone that they have
siblings.
Tuesday is the first one to leave the house
for school.
As Terrence takes her out, she gets overwhelmed
by the crowd and stops.
They enter another sector of the city and
they scan her bracelet, revealing a successful
copy.
Terrence drops her off at school and reminds
her that she's the only Karen Settman.
That night, he tells the girls that the meeting
at the end of the day is when they should
share all the details of the past day with
their siblings.
They watch Tuesday's video of the day.
Cut to the present and Sunday is showing her
videos from that day.
The siblings feel sorry for the allocated
girl and Wednesday makes a sly comment about
Cayman.
Thursday wonders about what would happen if
they turn themselves to the CAB.
All of the women think that's a horrible idea.
Monday seems to especially dislike it and
the two of them argue.
Thursday wishes to live free as herself and
not as Karen Settman - a mask they put on
one day a week.
Wednesday and Saturday tell the two to stop
arguing, so Thursday leaves the room saying
how what they have isn't a life.
In a flash-forward, she remembers herself
leaving the house on a Saturday after her
sister and grandfather have left for the day.
Later, Terrence is questioning the rest of
the girls about where she could've gone.
Suddenly, she knocks on the door and the other
girls hide.
He gets a gun and opens the door to Thursday
standing there with a hurt hand.
She has lost the tip of her finger.
Terrence dresses her wound and scolds her.
When he's done with her hand, he calls Monday
and says that everything they do affects each
other.
He cleans Monday's hand with alcohol, gives
her a shot, gets the cleaver, and sanitizes
it with fire.
What happens to one of them, happens to them
all.
He tells Monday to be brave and chops her
finger off.
At the present, it's a Monday.
The day's namesake is sick and Sunday holds
her head.
Later, Monday scans her vitals and uses the
information to apply her makeup.
She leaves the apartment and arrives at a
checkpoint to enter the sector where she works.
She's stopped by Adrian, who bitches how he
hates Mondays, but he's happy he gets to see
her.
She gets selected for questioning.
Adrian questions her on the spot and they
flirt a little, then he lets her proceed.
Monday enters the bank where she works and
is joined in the elevator by her colleague
Jerry.
They have an unpleasant conversation, where
he implies that he might know something about
her.
Monday is worried.
She doesn't come home that night and her sisters
are worried because she's not answering her
phone.
Friday checks her bracelet, but her GPS locator
is turned off and she can't find her.
Tuesday is scared that she might be dead and
the authorities find her before they do.
She thinks their lives might be over too.
Saturday seems chill about her being late,
but Thursday comments that Monday has never
been late for a meeting.
The next day, Tuesday gets the scan.
Saturday reads her results and helps her get
ready.
Thursday is angry that she'd eat a magic brownie.
Tuesday says it's good for her nerves, especially
since Monday is gone.
Thursday tells her that she needs to act normal,
but she isn't so sure she can do that.
Tuesday steps off the elevator and Eddie tells
her that he didn't see her come in the previous
day.
She gets to the checkpoint and passes through
without a problem.
When she gets to the office, Tuesday puts
a communication device in her ear and talks
to her sisters, telling them that they got
the promotion.
Her assistant walks in and Tuesday asks when
she last synced her tablet because she forgot
to log off.
The assistant says that she left early to
celebrate at her favorite bar.
Tuesday goes to the bar and drinks with the
bartender, asking her about the previous night.
She says that she didn't stay long because
her colleague annoyed her.
Tuesday calls her sisters with what she found
out and Saturday says that Jerry knows.
Thursday thinks that she should question him
because he might be the last person that saw
Monday.
Tuesday is stopped by agents from the Child
Allocation Bureau and they tell her to get
into a van.
Once inside, the officer scans her bracelet
and turns her GPS off.
Friday tells the others she lost her.
Tuesday is taken to the CAB headquarters.
Adrian sees her being walked inside for questioning.
She's taken into a room where Cayman is waiting
for her.
Tuesday reluctantly shakes her hand and asks
why she's there.
The woman says that she's amazed she made
it that far, considering they were seven children.
Tuesday continues her rouse, but the agent
gives Cayman a file showing there are five
more sisters.
The woman asks if there is another way and
the agent tells her that there isn't if she
wants to keep it quiet, then takes out a knife.
Tuesday tries to bargain with Cayman, but
she tells her that was what the last one said.
She doesn't come back that night either and
the others are restless and worried about
her.
Wednesday thinks they should go out and help
Suddenly, they see armed men on their security
cameras and freak out.
The men walk into the building and kill Eddie.
They use Tuesday's eye to get inside the apartment,
but they don't find anyone because the sisters
are hiding in their spot.
Thursday goes to get her father's gun, though
she finds the safe empty.
The men find the hiding spot and tell the
siblings to step out.
The main guy asks where the last one is.
Suddenly, Thursday hits one of them over the
head and uses his body as a shield.
Wednesday attacks the agent closest to her
and fights him while Thursday incapacitates
another one.
When she tries to shoot him the gun fails
and he fires at her, but Friday knocks him
out with a bookshelf.
He breaks out and takes down Friday.
Wednesday gets trashed in her fight and when
the main guy gets ready to kill her, Sunday
throws boiling water on his face.
Saturday attacks him with an iron and tries
to strangle him with a chord, but he knocks
her out.
The main guy gets a knife and walks toward
Wednesday when she manages to make him topple
over.
Thursday fights with the other one for his
gun.
Eventually, she manages to kill him.
When the fight is over, the women see that
Sunday's shot in the gut.
She says that she doesn't know who she is,
then she dies.
Meanwhile, Cayman visits a CAB holding facility
and tells the agent that she was assured that
the children won't suffer.
The woman has begun to feel guilty about what
she has done, but the agent tells her that
the parents are the guilty ones and that she
is humanity's last hope.
She springs back fast, telling the agent that
they must localize the Settman problem because
the scandal of seven siblings surviving to
adulthood might ruin her.
Besides, there is another complication in
the situation, the fact that Jerry seems to
know.
Cayman tells him to deal with Jerry first.
Back at the apartment, Friday finds Tuesday's
eye in the main guy's pocket and they scan
it to find out that it's hers.
Midnight strikes and the sisters discuss what
they should do.
Thursday thinks that they need to come up
with a plan because somebody wants them to
disappear.
The next day, Wednesday gets ready to leave
but doesn't don the Karen mask.
Friday pins a camera on her sweater so they
can see and hear everything she does.
Thursday gives her the gun even though they
can't unlock it and tells her to go to Jerry's
to find out everything she can.
Wednesday exits their sector and proceeds
to his place.
He opens the door and lets her enter.
Cayman's agent has his scope set on him.
Jerry asks her if their deal stands, but since
Wednesday doesn't know anything about it,
he tells her that she needs to pass on the
promotion so it goes to him and he'll keep
her secret.
She points the gun at him and asks how long
he's known.
Jerry says that if he didn't find the contract
about the fund's transfer, she would've been
in jail by then.
The contract was with Cayman, her new V.I.P.
client.
Wednesday asks to see the contract when Jerry
gets killed.
The shooting continues, but Wednesday manages
to close the shutters.
The rest of the agents go in after her and
an entire team shows up.
She asks her sisters where she should go,
but Friday can't help her.
Wednesday hides in the bathroom while the
agents check the apartment.
One of them enters the bathroom.
She struggles with him and kills him.
The others hear them struggle, calling for
the agent inside.
When he doesn't answer they move in while
Wednesday figures out what to do.
She cuts his finger off and attaches it to
hers so she can use his rifle.
The agents enter and she kills both of them.
The last one calls the boss, but she kills
him, sending him toppling over the building
in front of the others.
The rest of the agents move in as Friday finds
her a way out of the apartment through a window.
She lands in an empty dumpster and gets hurt.
Wednesday still manages to get out and run
with the agents after her.
Friday takes her through a safe route.
She runs into a building and the agents follow
her in but get attacked by the people inside.
Wednesday escapes the building and almost
gets hit by the main agent's car.
She continues to run unaware that he's tracking
her.
The agents see her and fire, killing innocent
bystanders.
Friday tells Wednesday that she needs to get
her on the roof to get her home from there.
Suddenly, there's a knock on their door.
It's Adrian, and the girls think it's the
CAB.
Wednesday is stuck until they figure out what
to do.
Saturday gets ready to open the door and the
others hide.
Adrian comments about her look, then tells
her that he was worried when he saw her at
the Bureau.
She lies that she was there to drop off some
documents.
He comes inside.
Friday hangs up on Wednesday, leaving her
stranded with agents coming in.
Meanwhile, Adrian makes a pass on Saturday,
but she panics and goes to the other room.
Thursday thinks that she's the one who was
seeing him, but Saturday swears she hasn't
seen him before.
Thursday tells her to get him back at his
place to find out which one of them he's been
seeing.
Friday puts a coupling device in her bracelet
so that she can get them access to the CAB
servers via Adrian's bracelet.
Saturday confesses to her sisters that she's
afraid that he might figure out it's not the
sister he's been seeing because she's a virgin,
but still changes outfits and leaves with
him.
Friday suddenly remembers Wednesday and tells
her where she can find access to the roof.
Wednesday runs there but realizes that she'll
have to make a huge jump to the other building.
Thursday convinces her to jump.
When she does, she gets shot midair by the
main agent.
She holds on to the roof, but he finishes
the job and sends the body to the processing
center.
Later, Saturday arrives at Adrian's apartment.
She takes a shot of vodka and he kisses her.
Simultaneously, Friday looks through the contract
and finds out that Monday had transferred
millions to Nicolette Cayman's campaign on
the day they got the promotion.
But she never managed to sign it.
Saturday couples with Adrian and simultaneously
couples with his bracelet.
That allows Friday access to the CAB servers.
The next day Friday and Thursday get into
the security feed of the processing center.
Suddenly, they see that one of them is alive
and they think it's Monday.
Saturday wakes up next to Adrian and as he
gets dressed for work, he tells her that there
is a big event for Cayman that night.
She wonders why he works for the CAB considering
how they treat children.
Adrian asks her if she's ever been to the
lower sectors and says that they're doing
them a favor.
As he's leaving he tells her that he wants
to be with her every day, not just Monday.
Adrian leaves and Saturday calls the others
so they all exchange what they found out about
Monday.
Thursday thinks that Adrian is playing them,
but Saturday doesn't think so.
Suddenly, agents appear in Adrian's apartment
and in front of the Settman apartment too.
They kill Saturday and gas the Settman apartment.
Friday tries to download all of their data
from their entire lives as proof that they
existed, but Thursday makes her leave.
The two escape through the fire escape and
Thursday touches down first.
Friday rolls the stairs back and returns to
the apartment.
The agents are coming up the stairs and she
rigs the microwave to explode.
Friday transfers all of the data to Thursday's
bracelet and tells her to get Monday.
She says that it's okay that she has to die
because she wouldn't make it without them.
The agents get ready to enter, she tells her
big sis she loves her and the microwave explodes
taking out the entire floor.
Thursday lost all of her sisters, save one.
Meanwhile, Adrian hears about the explosion
over the radio and immediately goes there.
He enters the building as they are taking
out Friday's body.
Adrian thinks it's his Karen and freaks out.
He sees them take the body to the processing
center and gets back in his car where Thursday
is waiting for him.
She says that he sold them out, but he has
no idea what's going on.
Thursday doesn't believe that he doesn't know
who she is at first, but he figures it out
and she confirms it for him.
She tells him that the woman he slept with
and the one he saw in a body bag aren't his
Karen.
Thursday tells him that Monday, or rather
Karen is alive and being held in the processing
center.
He says that he loves Karen and Thursday tells
him that if he really does, he has to help
her.
She has a plan.
Later, a Settman body is being taken to processing.
Adrian is the one taking the body in.
Simultaneously, the agents return to CAB.
Adrian is being led inside the facility where
he transfers the body to the nurses.
He sees them preparing a child for cryo-sleep.
They get her inside the pod and give her a
sedative.
Thursday sees the procedure from the body
bag.
The nurse locks in the pod and begins the
procedure which doesn't freeze the child but
burns it out of existence.
The next pod appears and it's Thursday's turn.
The nurse asks why the body isn't burned and
the agents find their men incapacitated in
the back of a van.
Thursday pushes the nurse inside the pod and
begins the procedure, while Adrian fights
the men outside.
Then Thursday struggles with the other nurse
and subdues him in the end.
Neither of them can believe what Cayman has
done, she has killed them all.
Thursday finds the room where they are keeping
Monday and they go after her.
Once they go inside, however, Thursday realizes
that it's Tuesday and tells Adrian.
They ask Tuesday what happened to Monday.
Simultaneously, she walks into Cayman's office
and she asks her if she was enjoying her stay.
Monday says she was more than comfortable.
Cayman says that with Karen's donation and
her push for parliament they might still save
the Earth.
Meanwhile, Thursday tells Tuesday to take
the wig off because she has another plan.
Monday is reluctant to sign the contract and
Cayman tells her that she kept one of her
siblings alive because someone willing to
give up their flesh and blood can never be
fully trusted.
She signs and Cayman asks her how it feels
to be the one and only Karen Settman.
In the meantime, Thursday has already changed
into Karen and is telling Tuesday to get into
the main server before Cayman's speech.
Adrian will take her there, while Thursday
goes to the event for Cayman's campaign.
Tuesday and Adrien get to the server, pretending
that she has him hostage and make the guards
open the door.
He subdues them and they go inside with Tuesday
getting into the main server immediately.
The agents track them down there, so Adrian
tries to fight them off.
Thursday is in the washroom when Monday walks
in and gets the gun out.
At the same time, Tuesday accesses the live
feed.
The main agent realizes he needs to get to
Cayman and leaves the others to deal with
it.
Thursday and Monday argue about the meaning
of family and sacrifice.
Monday tells her that she fell in love with
Adrian and everything changed for her.
Thursday makes a speech about how Karen Settman
belongs to all of them, but Monday tells her
that as the firstborn she was the real Karen
and the rest were after birth.
Thursday disarms her and they fight.
In the meantime, Cayman begins her speech
about overpopulation and shows the audience
her statistics.
While that's happening, Adrian blocks the
agents from coming in and Thursday kicks the
gun away as the two fight.
Monday goes after it, but the fight continues
in a stall.
At one point it looks like both Thursday and
Adrian are losing, as Tuesday finally uploads
the processing video.
Thursday and Monday are struggling for the
gun and it fires.
One of them is dead.
Adrian fights off the last remaining agent
and kills her.
Cayman talks about the possibility of a better
future.
A Settman sister walks into the hall of the
event and Tuesday plays the video.
It shows up on the main screen in the event
hall and everyone witnesses what child processing
really means.
Cayman says that they didn't suffer, then
realizes that the Settman sibling isn't Monday.
She asks her if she knows what she has done.
Monday appears but the main agents kill her
before she can shoot.
Then Adrian kills him and runs to Monday who's
still alive.
She has a flashback of their grandfather crying
the day he chopped their fingers off.
He tells her that he just wants to protect
them and apologizes to her.
Thursday takes her hand and Monday begs her
to promise her not to let them take her children.
Adrian comes to her side and she dies.
Later, the child allocation act has been revoked.
Children are being released from allocation
camps and pregnant women come out of hiding.
Cayman holds a press conference and asks who
will make the difficult decisions that will
ensure the survival of humanity.
She only regrets that their children won't
know the world they could've built together.
Thursday, Tuesday, and Adrian are watching
Monday's babies being taken to term in a medical
facility.
Tuesday says that she has chosen the name
Terry and Thursday tell Adrian to call her
Karen Settman.
They have come to realize that Monday did
it all for them so they can be safe.